CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contribution Guide

There are many ways to be an open source contributor, and we're here to help you on your way! You may:

* Propose ideas in our [discussion forums](https://forums.tbd.website/c/self-sovereign-identity-developers/7)
* Raise an issue or feature request in our [issue tracker](https://github.com/TBD54566975/ssi-service/issues)
* Help another contributor with one of their questions, or a code review
* Suggest improvements to our Getting Started documentation by supplying a Pull Request
* Evangelize our work together in conferences, podcasts, and social media spaces.

This guide is for you.

## Development Prerequisites

| Requirement | Tested Version | Installation Instructions                             |
|-------------|----------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| Go          | 1.17.6         | [go.dev](https://go.dev/doc/tutorial/compile-install) |
| Mage        | 1.12.1         | [magefile.org](https://magefile.org/)                 |

### Go

This project is written in Go, a modern, open source programming language.

You may verify your `go` installation via the terminal:

```
$> go version
go version go1.17.6 darwin/amd64
```

If you do not have go, we recommend installing it by:

#### MacOS

##### Homebrew

```
$> brew install go
```

### Mage

The build is run by Mage.

You may verify your `mage` installation via the terminal:

```
$> mage --version
Mage Build Tool 1.12.1
Build Date: 2021-12-15T21:00:02Z
Commit: 2f1ec40
built with: go1.17.6
```

#### MacOS

##### Homebrew

```
$> brew install mage
```

---

## Build (Mage)

```
$> mage build
```

## Test (Mage)

```
$> mage test
```

---

## Communications

### Issues

Anyone from the community is welcome (and encouraged!) to raise issues
via [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/TBD54566975/ssi-service/issues).

### Discussions

Design discussions and proposals take place
on the [TBD Forum](https://forums.tbd.website/c/self-sovereign-identity-developers/7).

We advocate an asynchronous, written debate model - so write up your thoughts and invite the community to join in!

### Continuous Integration

Build and test cycles are run via [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/TBD54566975/ssi-service/actions).

## Contribution

We review contributions to the codebase via GitHub's Pull Request mechanism. We have the following guidelines to ease
your experience and help our leads respond quickly to your valuable work:

* Start by proposing a change either in Issues (most appropriate for small change requests or bug fixes) or in
  Discussions (most appropriate for design and architecture considerations, proposing a new feature, or where you'd like
  insight and feedback)
* Cultivate consensus around your ideas; the project leads will help you pre-flight how beneficial the proposal might be
  to the project. Developing early buy-in will help others understand what you're looking to do, and give you a a
  greater chance of your contributions making it into the codebase! No one wants to see work done in an area that's
  unlikely to be incorporated into the codebase.
* Fork the repo into your own namespace/remote
* Work in a dedicated feature branch. Atlassian wrote a
  great [description of this workflow](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows/feature-branch-workflow)
* When you're ready to offer your work to the project, first:
* Squash your commits into a single one (or an appropriate small number of commits), and rebase atop the upstream `main`
  branch. This will limit the potential for merge conflicts during review, and helps keep the audit trail clean. A good
  writeup for how this is done
  is [here](https://medium.com/@slamflipstrom/a-beginners-guide-to-squashing-commits-with-git-rebase-8185cf6e62ec), and
  if you're having trouble - feel free to ask a member or the community for help or leave the commits as-is, and flag
  that you'd like rebasing assistance in your PR! We're here to support you.
* Open a PR in the project to bring in the code from your feature branch.
* The maintainers noted in the `CODEOWNERS` file will review your PR and optionally open a discussion about its contents
  before moving forward.
* Remain responsive to follow-up questions, be open to making requested changes, and...
* You're a contributor!
* And remember to respect everyone in our global development community. Guidelines are established in
  our `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`.

Commit message:

Issue #78: Add Linux installation instructions for Go and Mage

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contribution Guide

There are many ways to be an open source contributor, and we're here to help you on your way! You may:

* Propose ideas in our [discussion forums](https://forums.tbd.website/c/self-sovereign-identity-developers/7)
* Raise an issue or feature request in our [issue tracker](https://github.com/TBD54566975/ssi-service/issues)
* Help another contributor with one of their questions, or a code review
* Suggest improvements to our Getting Started documentation by supplying a Pull Request
* Evangelize our work together in conferences, podcasts, and social media spaces.

This guide is for you.

## Development Prerequisites

| Requirement | Tested Version | Installation Instructions                             |
|-------------|----------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| Go          | 1.17.6         | [go.dev](https://go.dev/doc/tutorial/compile-install) |
| Mage        | 1.12.1         | [magefile.org](https://magefile.org/)                 |

### Go

This project is written in Go, a modern, open source programming language.

You may verify your `go` installation via the terminal:

```
$> go version
go version go1.17.6 darwin/amd64
```

If you do not have go, we recommend installing it by:

#### MacOS

##### Homebrew

```
$> brew install go
```

#### Linux

See the [Go Installation Documentation](https://go.dev/doc/install).

### Mage

The build is run by Mage.

You may verify your `mage` installation via the terminal:

```
$> mage --version
Mage Build Tool 1.12.1
Build Date: 2021-12-15T21:00:02Z
Commit: 2f1ec40
built with: go1.17.6
```

#### MacOS

##### Homebrew

```
$> brew install mage
```

#### Linux

Installation instructions are on the [Magefile home page](https://magefile.org/).

---

## Build (Mage)

```
$> mage build
```

## Test (Mage)

```
$> mage test
```

---

## Communications

### Issues

Anyone from the community is welcome (and encouraged!) to raise issues
via [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/TBD54566975/ssi-service/issues).

### Discussions

Design discussions and proposals take place
on the [TBD Forum](https://forums.tbd.website/c/self-sovereign-identity-developers/7).

We advocate an asynchronous, written debate model - so write up your thoughts and invite the community to join in!

### Continuous Integration

Build and test cycles are run via [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/TBD54566975/ssi-service/actions).

## Contribution

We review contributions to the codebase via GitHub's Pull Request mechanism. We have the following guidelines to ease
your experience and help our leads respond quickly to your valuable work:

* Start by proposing a change either in Issues (most appropriate for small change requests or bug fixes) or in
  Discussions (most appropriate for design and architecture considerations, proposing a new feature, or where you'd like
  insight and feedback)
* Cultivate consensus around your ideas; the project leads will help you pre-flight how beneficial the proposal might be
  to the project. Developing early buy-in will help others understand what you're looking to do, and give you a a
  greater chance of your contributions making it into the codebase! No one wants to see work done in an area that's
  unlikely to be incorporated into the codebase.
* Fork the repo into your own namespace/remote
* Work in a dedicated feature branch. Atlassian wrote a
  great [description of this workflow](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows/feature-branch-workflow)
* When you're ready to offer your work to the project, first:
* Squash your commits into a single one (or an appropriate small number of commits), and rebase atop the upstream `main`
  branch. This will limit the potential for merge conflicts during review, and helps keep the audit trail clean. A good
  writeup for how this is done
  is [here](https://medium.com/@slamflipstrom/a-beginners-guide-to-squashing-commits-with-git-rebase-8185cf6e62ec), and
  if you're having trouble - feel free to ask a member or the community for help or leave the commits as-is, and flag
  that you'd like rebasing assistance in your PR! We're here to support you.
* Open a PR in the project to bring in the code from your feature branch.
* The maintainers noted in the `CODEOWNERS` file will review your PR and optionally open a discussion about its contents
  before moving forward.
* Remain responsive to follow-up questions, be open to making requested changes, and...
* You're a contributor!
* And remember to respect everyone in our global development community. Guidelines are established in
  our `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md`.
