doc/howto/credential.md, before:

# How To: Create a Credential

## Background

A [Verifiable Credential (VC)](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/) is a standard format to package a set of claims that an _issuer_ makes about a _subject_. The Verifiable Credentials Data Model, a W3C standard, introduces a number of concepts, most notable among them, the [three party model](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/#ecosystem-overview) of **issuers**, **holders**, and **verifiers**. The model is a novel way of empowering entities to have tamper-evident representations of their data which acts as a mechanism to present the data to any third party (a verifier) without necessitating contact between the verifier and issuer. With the three party model entities are given more [control, transparency, privacy, and utility](https://www.lifewithalacrity.com/2016/04/the-path-to-self-soverereign-identity.html) for data that is rightfully theirs.

VCs are defined by a data model, which does not provide guidance on transmitting or sharing credentials between parties (protocols). The data model also does not provide guidance on _securing_ the credential (which puts the verifiable in verifiable credential). There are two prominent options here: [Data Integrity](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-integrity/) and [JOSE/COSE](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-jose-cose/) both of which we have demonstrated support for. The data model has a number of required (core) properties, and multiple means of extension to meet many use cases and functional needs.

## VCs in the SSI Service

VCs are a core component of SSI (Self Sovereign Identity) systems and work hand-in-hand with [DIDs](did.md). In our system, DIDs are used to represent the _issuer_ as well as the _subject_ of a credential. To define which content is in a VC we make use of [JSON schemas](schema.md).

The SSI Service is transport-agnostic and does not mandate the usage of a single mechanism to deliver credentials to an intended holder. We have begun integration with both [Web5](https://github.com/TBD54566975/dwn-sdk-js#readme) and [OpenID Connect](https://openid.net/sg/openid4vc/) transportation mechanisms but leave the door open to any number of possibile options.

At present, the service supports issuing credentials using the [v1.1 data model as a JWT](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/#json-web-token). There is support for verifying credentials that make use of select [Data Integrity cryptographic suites](https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-integrity/) though use is discouraged due to complexity and potential security risks. Support for [v2.0](https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-model/) of the data model is planned and coming soon!

Out of the box we have support for exposing two [credential statuses](status.md) using the [Verifiable Credentials Status List](https://w3c.github.io/vc-status-list-2021/) specification: suspension and revocation.

## Creating a Verifiable Credential

Creating a credential using the SSI Service currently requires four pieces of data: an `issuer` DID, a `verificationMethodId` which must be contained within the issuer's DID Document, a `subject` DID (the DID who the claims are about), and `data` which is an arbitrary JSON object for the claims that you wish to be in the credential (in the `credentialSubject` property).

There are additional optional properties that let you specify `evidence`, an `expiry`, and whether you want to make the credential `revocable` or `suspendable`. Let's keep things simple and issue our first credential which will attest to a person's first and last name.

### 1. Create an issuer DID

We need two pieces of issuer information to create the credential: their DID and a verification method identifier. To get both, let's create a `did:key` to act as the issuer, with the following `PUT` command to `/v1/dids/key`.

```bash
curl -X PUT localhost:3000/v1/dids/key -d '{"keyType": "Ed25519"}'
```

We get back a response with the `id` as `did:key:z6Mkm1TmRWRPK6n21QncUZnk1tdYkje896mYCzhMfQ67assD`. Since we're using DID key we know that there is only a single key and its' `verificationMethodId` is the DID suffix: `did:key:z6Mkm1TmRWRPK6n21QncUZnk1tdYkje896mYCzhMfQ67assD#z6Mkm1TmRWRPK6n21QncUZnk1tdYkje896mYCzhMfQ67assD`. This value could be retrieved by resolving the DID or by making a `GET` request to `/v1/dids/key/did:key:z6Mkm1TmRWRPK6n21QncUZnk1tdYkje896mYCzhMfQ67assD` as well.

### 2. Create a person schema

Because we want to include information about the subject in the credential, let's first create a schema to define the shape of the credential's data with required `firstName` and `lastName` values. While this step is optional, it's a good practice to have a schema that describes the shape of the data.

Once we have our schema, we'll submit it to the service with a `PUT` request to `v1/schemas` as follows:

```bash
curl -X PUT localhost:3000/v1/schemas -d '{
  "name": "Person Credential",
  "schema": {
    "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema",
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
      "credentialSubject": {
        "type": "object",
        "properties": {
          "firstName": {
            "type": "string"
         },
          "lastName": {
            "type": "string"
         }
        },
        "required": ["firstName", "lastName"]
      }
    }
  }
}'
```

After submission we get back an identifier to refer to the schema as `aed6f4f0-5ed7-4d7a-a3df-56430e1b2a88`.

### 3. Create a credential

Separately, we've figured out that the subject we're creating the credential for has the DID `did:key:z6MkmNnvnfzW3nLiePweN3niGLnvp2BjKx3NM186vJ2yRg2z`. Now we have all the set up done we're ready to create our credential.

Construct a `PUT` request to `/v1/credentials` as follows:

```bash
curl -X PUT localhost:3000/v1/credentials -d '{
  "issuer": "did:key:z6Mkm1TmRWRPK6n21QncUZnk1tdYkje896mYCzhMfQ67assD",
  "verificationMethodId": "did:key:z6Mkm1TmRWRPK6n21QncUZnk1tdYkje896mYCzhMfQ67assD#z6Mkm1TmRWRPK6n21QncUZnk1tdYkje896mYCzhMfQ67assD",
  "subject": "did:key:z6MkmNnvnfzW3nLiePweN3niGLnvp2BjKx3NM186vJ2yRg2z",
  "schemaId": "aed6f4f0-5ed7-4d7a-a3df-56430e1b2a88",
  "data": {
    "firstName": "Satoshi",
    "lastName": "Nakamoto"
  }
}'
```

Upon success we'll see a response such as:

```json
{
  "id": "46bc3d25-6aaf-4f50-99ed-61c4b35f6411",
  "fullyQualifiedVerificationMethodId": "did:key:z6Mkm1TmRWRPK6n21QncUZnk1tdYkje896mYCzhMfQ67assD#z6Mkm1TmRWRPK6n21QncUZnk1tdYkje896mYCzhMfQ67assD",
  "credential": {
    "@context": ["https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1"],
    "id": "http://localhost:3000/v1/credentials/46bc3d25-6aaf-4f50-99ed-61c4b35f6411",
    "type": ["VerifiableCredential"],
    "issuer": "did:key:z6Mkm1TmRWRPK6n21QncUZnk1tdYkje896mYCzhMfQ67assD",
    "issuanceDate": "2023-07-28T12:45:15-07:00",
    "credentialSubject": {
      "id": "did:key:z6MkmNnvnfzW3nLiePweN3niGLnvp2BjKx3NM186vJ2yRg2z",
      "firstName": "Satoshi",
      "lastName": "Nakamoto"
    },
    "credentialSchema": {
      "id": "aed6f4f0-5ed7-4d7a-a3df-56430e1b2a88",
      "type": "JsonSchema2023"
    }
  },
  "credentialJwt": "eyJhbGciOiJFZERTQSIsImtpZCI6ImRpZDprZXk6ejZNa20xVG1SV1JQSzZuMjFRbmNVWm5rMXRkWWtqZTg5Nm1ZQ3poTWZRNjdhc3NEI3o2TWttMVRtUldSUEs2bjIxUW5jVVpuazF0ZFlramU4OTZtWUN6aE1mUTY3YXNzRCIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJpYXQiOjE2OTA1NzM1MTUsImlzcyI6ImRpZDprZXk6ejZNa20xVG1SV1JQSzZuMjFRbmNVWm5rMXRkWWtqZTg5Nm1ZQ3poTWZRNjdhc3NEIiwianRpIjoiaHR0cDovL2xvY2FsaG9zdDozMDAwL3YxL2NyZWRlbnRpYWxzLzQ2YmMzZDI1LTZhYWYtNGY1MC05OWVkLTYxYzRiMzVmNjQxMSIsIm5iZiI6MTY5MDU3MzUxNSwibm9uY2UiOiIzMGMwNDYxZi1jMWUxLTQwNDctYWUwYS01NjgzMjdkMzY4YTYiLCJzdWIiOiJkaWQ6a2V5Ono2TWttTm52bmZ6VzNuTGllUHdlTjNuaUdMbnZwMkJqS3gzTk0xODZ2SjJ5UmcyeiIsInZjIjp7IkBjb250ZXh0IjpbImh0dHBzOi8vd3d3LnczLm9yZy8yMDE4L2NyZWRlbnRpYWxzL3YxIl0sInR5cGUiOlsiVmVyaWZpYWJsZUNyZWRlbnRpYWwiXSwiY3JlZGVudGlhbFN1YmplY3QiOnsiZmlyc3ROYW1lIjoiU2F0b3NoaSIsImxhc3ROYW1lIjoiTmFrYW1vdG8ifSwiY3JlZGVudGlhbFNjaGVtYSI6eyJpZCI6ImFlZDZmNGYwLTVlZDctNGQ3YS1hM2RmLTU2NDMwZTFiMmE4OCIsInR5cGUiOiJKc29uU2NoZW1hMjAyMyJ9fX0.xwqpDuO6PDeEqYr6DflbeR6mhuwvVg0uR43i-7Zhy2DdaH1e3Jt4DuiMy09tZQ2jAXki0rjMNgLt7dPpzOl8BA"
}
```

In the `credential` property we see an unsecured, but readable, version of the VC. The VC is signed and packaged as a JWT in the `credentialJwt` property. If you're interested, you can decode the JWT using a tool such as [jwt.io](https://jwt.io/). If you were to 'issue' or transmit the credential to a _holder_ you would just send this JWT value.

## Getting Credentials

Once you've created multiple credentials, you can view all credentials by making a `GET` request to `/v1/credentials`. This endpoint also supports three query parameters: `issuer`, `schema`, and `subject` which can be used mutually exclusively.

You can get a single credential by making a `GET` request to `/v1/credentials/{id}`.

## Other Credential Operations

To learn about verifying credentials [read more here](verification.md). You can also learn more about [credential status here](status.md).

Commit message:

How tos on credential status and verification (#616)
* doc on verification

* update cred status

* add note on custodial keys in credentials

* Update doc/howto/status.md

Co-authored-by: Andres Uribe <auribe@tbd.email>

---------

Co-authored-by: Andres Uribe <auribe@tbd.email>

doc/howto/credential.md, after:

# How To: Create a Credential

## Background

A [Verifiable Credential (VC)](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/) is a standard format to package a set of claims that an _issuer_ makes about a _subject_. The Verifiable Credentials Data Model, a W3C standard, introduces a number of concepts, most notable among them, the [three party model](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/#ecosystem-overview) of **issuers**, **holders**, and **verifiers**. The model is a novel way of empowering entities to have tamper-evident representations of their data which acts as a mechanism to present the data to any third party (a verifier) without necessitating contact between the verifier and issuer. With the three party model entities are given more [control, transparency, privacy, and utility](https://www.lifewithalacrity.com/2016/04/the-path-to-self-soverereign-identity.html) for data that is rightfully theirs.

VCs are defined by a data model, which does not provide guidance on transmitting or sharing credentials between parties (protocols). The data model also does not provide guidance on _securing_ the credential (which puts the verifiable in verifiable credential). There are two prominent options here: [Data Integrity](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-integrity/) and [JOSE/COSE](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-jose-cose/) both of which we have demonstrated support for. The data model has a number of required (core) properties, and multiple means of extension to meet many use cases and functional needs.

## VCs in the SSI Service

VCs are a core component of SSI (Self Sovereign Identity) systems and work hand-in-hand with [DIDs](did.md). In our system, DIDs are used to represent the _issuer_ as well as the _subject_ of a credential. To define which content is in a VC we make use of [JSON schemas](schema.md).

The SSI Service is transport-agnostic and does not mandate the usage of a single mechanism to deliver credentials to an intended holder. We have begun integration with both [Web5](https://github.com/TBD54566975/dwn-sdk-js#readme) and [OpenID Connect](https://openid.net/sg/openid4vc/) transportation mechanisms but leave the door open to any number of possibile options.

At present, the service supports issuing credentials using the [v1.1 data model as a JWT](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/#json-web-token). There is support for verifying credentials that make use of select [Data Integrity cryptographic suites](https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-integrity/) though use is discouraged due to complexity and potential security risks. Support for [v2.0](https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-model/) of the data model is planned and coming soon!

Out of the box we have support for exposing two [credential statuses](status.md) using the [Verifiable Credentials Status List](https://w3c.github.io/vc-status-list-2021/) specification: suspension and revocation.

## Creating a Verifiable Credential

Creating a credential using the SSI Service currently requires four pieces of data: an `issuer` DID, a `verificationMethodId` which must be contained within the issuer's DID Document, a `subject` DID (the DID who the claims are about), and `data` which is an arbitrary JSON object for the claims that you wish to be in the credential (in the `credentialSubject` property). As noted in the [How To on DIDs](did.md), all DIDs managed by the SSI Service are _fully custodial_. This means that all keys referenced in those DIDs are stored by the SSI Service, which is necessary for the service to author any content on behalf of those DIDs. The cryptographic keys associated with the DID are encrypted at rest using a KEK (Key Encryption Key) which can optionally be used with a cloud HSM.

There are additional optional properties that let you specify `evidence`, an `expiry`, and whether you want to make the credential `revocable` or `suspendable`. Let's keep things simple and issue our first credential which will attest to a person's first and last name.

### 1. Create an issuer DID

We need two pieces of issuer information to create the credential: their DID and a verification method identifier. To get both, let's create a `did:key` to act as the issuer, with the following `PUT` command to `/v1/dids/key`.

```bash
curl -X PUT localhost:3000/v1/dids/key -d '{"keyType": "Ed25519"}'
```

We get back a response with the `id` as `did:key:z6Mkm1TmRWRPK6n21QncUZnk1tdYkje896mYCzhMfQ67assD`. Since we're using DID key we know that there is only a single key and its' `verificationMethodId` is the DID suffix: `did:key:z6Mkm1TmRWRPK6n21QncUZnk1tdYkje896mYCzhMfQ67assD#z6Mkm1TmRWRPK6n21QncUZnk1tdYkje896mYCzhMfQ67assD`. This value could be retrieved by resolving the DID or by making a `GET` request to `/v1/dids/key/did:key:z6Mkm1TmRWRPK6n21QncUZnk1tdYkje896mYCzhMfQ67assD` as well.

### 2. Create a person schema

Because we want to include information about the subject in the credential, let's first create a schema to define the shape of the credential's data with required `firstName` and `lastName` values. While this step is optional, it's a good practice to have a schema that describes the shape of the data.

Once we have our schema, we'll submit it to the service with a `PUT` request to `v1/schemas` as follows:

```bash
curl -X PUT localhost:3000/v1/schemas -d '{
  "name": "Person Credential",
  "schema": {
    "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/draft/2020-12/schema",
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
      "credentialSubject": {
        "type": "object",
        "properties": {
          "firstName": {
            "type": "string"
         },
          "lastName": {
            "type": "string"
         }
        },
        "required": ["firstName", "lastName"]
      }
    }
  }
}'
```

After submission we get back an identifier to refer to the schema as `aed6f4f0-5ed7-4d7a-a3df-56430e1b2a88`.

### 3. Create a credential

Separately, we've figured out that the subject we're creating the credential for has the DID `did:key:z6MkmNnvnfzW3nLiePweN3niGLnvp2BjKx3NM186vJ2yRg2z`. Now we have all the set up done we're ready to create our credential.

Construct a `PUT` request to `/v1/credentials` as follows:

```bash
curl -X PUT localhost:3000/v1/credentials -d '{
  "issuer": "did:key:z6Mkm1TmRWRPK6n21QncUZnk1tdYkje896mYCzhMfQ67assD",
  "verificationMethodId": "did:key:z6Mkm1TmRWRPK6n21QncUZnk1tdYkje896mYCzhMfQ67assD#z6Mkm1TmRWRPK6n21QncUZnk1tdYkje896mYCzhMfQ67assD",
  "subject": "did:key:z6MkmNnvnfzW3nLiePweN3niGLnvp2BjKx3NM186vJ2yRg2z",
  "schemaId": "aed6f4f0-5ed7-4d7a-a3df-56430e1b2a88",
  "data": {
    "firstName": "Satoshi",
    "lastName": "Nakamoto"
  }
}'
```

Upon success we see a response such as:

```json
{
  "id": "46bc3d25-6aaf-4f50-99ed-61c4b35f6411",
  "fullyQualifiedVerificationMethodId": "did:key:z6Mkm1TmRWRPK6n21QncUZnk1tdYkje896mYCzhMfQ67assD#z6Mkm1TmRWRPK6n21QncUZnk1tdYkje896mYCzhMfQ67assD",
  "credential": {
    "@context": ["https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1"],
    "id": "http://localhost:3000/v1/credentials/46bc3d25-6aaf-4f50-99ed-61c4b35f6411",
    "type": ["VerifiableCredential"],
    "issuer": "did:key:z6Mkm1TmRWRPK6n21QncUZnk1tdYkje896mYCzhMfQ67assD",
    "issuanceDate": "2023-07-28T12:45:15-07:00",
    "credentialSubject": {
      "id": "did:key:z6MkmNnvnfzW3nLiePweN3niGLnvp2BjKx3NM186vJ2yRg2z",
      "firstName": "Satoshi",
      "lastName": "Nakamoto"
    },
    "credentialSchema": {
      "id": "aed6f4f0-5ed7-4d7a-a3df-56430e1b2a88",
      "type": "JsonSchema2023"
    }
  },
  "credentialJwt": "eyJhbGciOiJFZERTQSIsImtpZCI6ImRpZDprZXk6ejZNa20xVG1SV1JQSzZuMjFRbmNVWm5rMXRkWWtqZTg5Nm1ZQ3poTWZRNjdhc3NEI3o2TWttMVRtUldSUEs2bjIxUW5jVVpuazF0ZFlramU4OTZtWUN6aE1mUTY3YXNzRCIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.xwqpDuO6PDeEqYr6DflbeR6mhuwvVg0uR43i-7Zhy2DdaH1e3Jt4DuiMy09tZQ2jAXki0rjMNgLt7dPpzOl8BA"
}
```

In the `credential` property we see an unsecured, but readable, version of the VC. The VC is signed and packaged as a JWT in the `credentialJwt` property. If you're interested, you can decode the JWT using a tool such as [jwt.io](https://jwt.io/). If you were to 'issue' or transmit the credential to a _holder_ you would just send this JWT value.

## Getting Credentials

Once you've created multiple credentials, you can view all credentials by making a `GET` request to `/v1/credentials`. This endpoint also supports three query parameters: `issuer`, `schema`, and `subject` which can be used mutually exclusively.

You can get a single credential by making a `GET` request to `/v1/credentials/{id}`.

## Other Credential Operations

To learn about verifying credentials [read more here](verification.md). You can also learn more about [credential status here](status.md).
